No matter which blockchain you end up working with,
transactions are the most important part of any blockchain system.
You can think of them as the atoms of the blockchain space.
So, just as atoms are the fundamental building blocks from which all life is built upon,
transactions are the units on which blocks of data are built upon.
As you may have noticed, everything in the Bitcoin blockchain as we've
seen is designed to ensure a transaction can be created,
propagated as the network,
validated and then eventually added onto the blockchain.
To understand how to build our own blockchain,
we need to understand the nuts and bolts of a transaction.
In this video, we'll review how transactions work,
focusing on their inputs and outputs.
Having a good grasp of these concepts will be very
important later when we discuss transaction data models.
Transactions encode the transfer of value between participants and a system.
In more detail, a transaction is a data structure that encodes a transfer of value
from a source of funds called an "input" to a destination of funds called an "output".
Let's take a look at a real life transaction we've explored before.
This transaction consumed or used one input and created two outputs.
Think of a transaction as a simple payment from one person to another,
which often includes change that's returned to the original owner.
In this example, one user had about 0.0257 Bitcoins in their wallet,
they then paid another user 0.015 Bitcoins and the
rest point 0.0106 Bitcoins was returned back to the original owner as change.
Now the question is, where do these inputs come from and where do these outputs go?
So, here's a simplified diagram of a single transaction.
Let's call it Transaction A. Bitcoin transactions are composed of inputs and outputs.
In a transaction, the inputs are just the unspent outputs from another transaction.
For example, if there's a Transaction B,
it's inputs maybe one of the outputs from Transaction A.
Let me repeat that last concept again because it's really important.
Inputs in one transaction are just the unspent outputs from another transaction.
All inputs reference back to an output.
Conceptualize the arrow as a pointer from
the inputs referencing back to the outputs from which they came.
This is similar to pointers in a linked list,
and you'll find that this is a standard arrow notation
of inputs pointing back to their outputs.
When a user receives Bitcoins that amount is
recorded on the blockchain as unspent outputs.
Unspent outputs is often shorthanded to UTXO.
UTXO is short for unspent transaction outputs.
You may see both of these terms used interchangeably.
Like we were saying, when a user receives Bitcoins,
that amount is recorded onto the blockchain as unspent outputs.
This means if the user has received lots of Bitcoins from
several different transactions there is
a huge UTXO recorded for each of these transactions.
So, the user's Bitcoins maybe scattered across the Blockchain.
When it comes time for the user to spend their Bitcoins,
their wallet scans the blockchain and aggregates
all the UTXO belonging to that user and then calculates the balance.
Said another way, there is
no such thing as a stored balance for an account or a Bitcoin address.
There's just records of UTXO tied to
a specific owner that are sprinkled throughout the blockchain.
Another important thing is while UTXO can be any arbitrary value,
once it's created it is indivisible,
just like a coin. It can't be cut in half.
If a UTXO is larger than the desired value of a transaction,
it must still be consumed in
its entirety and change must be generated in the transaction.
Let's take a look at an example.
It's Brandy's lucky day and I'm going to send her two Bitcoins.
My wallet scans the blockchain and sees that there are
two UTXO associated with me that can be summed up and used for this transaction.
The first UTXO has 1.25 Bitcoins and the second has one 1.75 Bitcoins.
The wallet aggregates these to UTXOs to total
three Bitcoins that we use as the input of my transaction with Brandy.
Here's what that looks like as a transaction input-output diagram.
My wallet found UTXO tied to my address that can be used as inputs for this transaction.
So, one UTXO that has 1.25 Bitcoins and a second that has 1.75 Bitcoins.
The transaction processes and spits out two outputs.
One output that is two Bitcoins sent over to Brandy,
and another that sends one Bitcoin of change back into my wallet.
If there is a minors or transaction fee,
this is the difference between the inputs minus the outputs.
This can be summed up all in this equation.
Sum of the inputs minus sum of the outputs equals the transaction fee.
That wraps it up for a quick recap of transaction inputs and outputs.
We covered that transactions are a data structure that
encodes a transfer of value from a source of funds,
what's hot an "input" to a destination called an "output".
We saw that inputs in one transaction or
just the unspent outputs from another transaction,
and outputs are the amount received or transferred in a transaction.
This amount is recorded in the blockchain as UTXO,
which is short for unspent transaction output.
These concepts will help us in the next section as
we deconstruct an actual transaction data model.